---
title: "Paper presentation at IEEE IGARSS2029"
collection: talks
type: "Paper presentation"
permalink: /talks/2020-09-26-21-igarss20-1
venue: "Virtual Conference"
date: 2020-09-26
location: "Online"
---

[More information here](https://igarss2020.org/)

IGARSS 2020 - Remote Sensing: Global Perspectives for Local Solutions – was to be held on the Big Island of Hawaii. This island – over 4,000 square miles – has 10 of the world’s 14 climate zones and lends itself to discovery for our diverse global viewpoints and discussions. You will also find the longest running active volcano in the world (continuous since 1983) and the world's largest active Volcano (Mauna Loa.)

The IGARSS 2020 conference was to be held at the Hilton Waikoloa Village on 62 oceanfront acres along the Kohala Coast. It is 20 minutes north of the Kona International Airport. This property offers tropical gardens, wildlife, Asian and Polynesian art, golf courses, tennis courts, shopping, restaurants, snorkeling, a nearby white sand beach (anaeho’omalu bay), salt-water lagoon, fresh water swimming pools, waterfalls and slides, dolphin encounters, sea turtles, and much more.

IGARSS 2020 is offering unique perspectives, discussions, research, solutions, and an opportunity to network in a beautiful environment.

Hosted by the IEEE Geoscience and Remote Sensing Society, the 2020 IEEE International Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium (IGARSS 2020) will be held Saturday, September 26 through Friday, October 2, 2020 in a virtual setting. The main theme of the 2020 symposium is “Remote Sensing: Global Perspectives for Local Solutions”.

On behalf of the IEEE Geoscience and Remote Sensing Society and the IGARSS 2020 Organizing Committee, we invite you to participate in IGARSS 2020, the world’s premier symposium on geoscience, remote sensing and related topics. We look forward to meeting you online during IGARSS 2020.

**Paper presented by me during the conference:**
- T. De Corso et al., “Application of Dinsar Technique to High Coherence Satellite Images for Strategic Infrastructure Monitoring,” IGARSS 2020 - 2020 IEEE International Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium, 2020, pp. 4235-4238, doi: 10.1109/IGARSS39084.2020.9323810.
