---
title: "Talk at IJGI Webinar The Rise of Artificial Intelligence for Space Applications"
collection: talks
type: "Talk"
permalink: /talks/2022-02-23-ijgi-1
venue: "Online"
date: 2021-10-28
location: ""
---

[More information here](https://www.mdpi.com/journal/ijgi/events/13596)

The webinar is structured as a panel where the chair, Prof. Dr. Maria A Brovelli, interviews researchers of the ESA Φ-lab about AI for Earth Observation (AI4EO), to discover with them the most innovative ideas and transformative technologies.

While today the new boost of AI4EO is mainly related to Computer Vision applied to high-resolution satellite imagery, there are many other areas for Earth Science, prediction and big data analytics that could benefit from AI. In particular, Deep Learning is pushing AI to new levels beyond human performance.

This panel will give an overview of the current successes and challenges of AI for Space Applications and present a few methodological use-cases which will lead to impactful Earth observation applications, from self-supervised learning to neuromorphic learning.

The following experts will be present and talk:

- Prof. Dr. Maria A Brovelli, Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, Politecnico di Milano, Italy
- Dr. Pierre-Philippe Mathieu, ESA Φ-lab, ESRIN, Italy
- Dr. Rochelle Schneider, ESA Φ-lab, ESRIN, Italy, ECMWF, London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine (LSHTM), UK.
- Mr. Alessandro Sebastianelli, University of Sannio, Benevento, ESA Φ-lab, ESRIN, Italy
- Dr. Federico Serva, ESA Φ-lab, ESRIN, Agenzia Spaziale Italiana, Italy
- Dr. Gabriele Meoni, ESA Φ-lab, ESRIN, Italy
- Dr. Andrzej Kucik, ESA Φ-lab, ESRIN, Italy
- Dr. Bertrand Le Saux, ESA Φ-lab, ESRIN, Italy