---
title: "Talk on QC4EO at IEEE GRSS IADF School"
collection: talks
type: "Talk"
permalink: /talks/2024-09-10-iadf24
venue: "University of Sannio, Benevento"
date: 2024-09-10
location: "Benevento, Italy"
---

[More information here](https://iadf-school.org/)

Remote sensing techniques are utilized for a better understanding of the Earth and have impacted applications in weather forecasting, tracking biodiversity, land management, post-disaster relief, rescue management, and policymaking, to name a few. The amount of data acquired from sensors onboard Earth Observation (EO) satellites is increasing. For example, it is expected that Sentinel satellites will produce ten terabytes of EO data once fully operational. The availability of data from multiple sensors and satellites provides an opportunity to develop innovative methodologies for remote sensing applications.

As the IEEE GRSS IADF, after the success of the first school on Computer Vision for Earth Observation (CV4EO), we are pleased to announce its third edition open to everybody who has a strong motivation and interest in the topics addressed by it. This school will focus on applying CV methods to address challenges in remote sensing. It will be held in presence at the University of Sannio, in Benevento (Italy).

This school will focus on applying CV methods to address challenges in remote sensing. This school will contain a series of lectures on the existing methods utilized for analyzing satellite images, along with the challenges encountered. Each lecture will be followed by a practical session where the participants will go deep into the details of the techniques discussed in the lecture using some commonly used programming languages (e.g., Python) and open-source software tools. The material related to both lectures and practical sessions will be released to the audience.

The school is open to everybody who has a strong motivation and interest in the topics addressed by it. Participation is free of charge a completely supported by IEEE GRSS. The number of participants is limited to 30 to guarantee high-quality lessons with good interaction. If a higher number of registrations is received, the organizing committee will select 30 participants and the recorded lessons of the course will be later distributed through the GRSS YouTube channel. All will receive a certificate confirming their attendance at the school.